TSC and CONTRIBUTION guidelines (#289)
AcademySoftwareFoundation/openvdb: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Overview

This project aims to be governed in a transparent, accessible way for the benefit of the community. All participation in this project is open and not bound to corporate affilation. Participants all our bound the ASWF Code of Conduct.

# Project roles

## Contributor

The contributor role is the starting role for anyone participating in the project and wishing to contribute code.

> # Process for becoming a contributor

Reviewer: Is signing the CLA also a requirement?

Author: Yes - added this in there now. Good catch!

* Review the CONTRIBUTING.md guidelines to ensure your contribution is inline with the project's coding and styling guidelines.
* Submit your code as a PR with the appropriate DCO signoff
* Have you submission approved by the maintainer(s) and merged into the codebase.

## Committer

The committer role enables the participation to commit code directly to the repository, but also comes with the responsibility of being a responsible leader in the community.

### Process for becoming a committer

* Show your experience with the codebase through contributions and engagement on the community channels.
* Request to become a committer.
* Have the majority of committers approve you becoming a committer.
* Your name and email is added to the MAINTAINERS.md file for the project.

### Committer responsibilities

* Monitor email aliases.
* Monitor Slack (delayed response is perfectly acceptable).
* Triage GitHub issues and perform pull request reviews for other committers and the community.

> * Make sure that ongoing PRs are moving forward at the right pace or closing them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure that ongoing PRs are moving forward at the right pace or close them.
```

* In general continue to be willing to spend at least 25% of ones time working on the project (~1.25 business days per week).

> ### When does a committer lose committer status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### When does a committer lose committer status?
```

If a committer is no longer interested or cannot perform the committer duties listed above, they
should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status. In extreme cases this can also occur by a vote of
the committers per the voting process below.

## Technical Steering Committee (TSC) member

> The Techincal Steering Committee (TSC) oversees the overall techincal direction of OpenVDB, as defined in the [charter](charter.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Technical Steering Committee (TSC) oversees the overall technical direction of OpenVDB, as defined in the [charter](charter.md).
```

> TSC voting members consist of committers that have been nominated by the committers, with a super majority of committers required to have a committer elected to be a TSC voting member. TSC voting members term and succession is defined in the [charter](charter.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TSC voting members consist of committers who have been nominated by the committee, with a supermajority of voting members required to have a committer elected to be a TSC voting member. TSC voting members term and succession is defined in the [charter](charter.md).
```

# Overview

This project aims to be governed in a transparent, accessible way for the benefit of the community. All participation in this project is open and not bound to corporate affilation. Participants all our bound to the ASWF Code of Conduct.

# Project roles

## Contributor

The contributor role is the starting role for anyone participating in the project and wishing to contribute code.

# Process for becoming a contributor

* Review the [coding standards](http://www.openvdb.org/documentation/doxygen/codingStyle.html) to ensure your contribution is in line with the project's coding and styling guidelines.
* Sign the Individual CLA and have your organization sign the Corporate CLA.

> * Submit your code as a PR with the appropriate DCO signoff.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Submit your code as a PR with the appropriate DCO sign-off.
```

* Have your submission approved by the maintainer(s) and merged into the codebase.

## Committer

The committer role enables the participant to commit code directly to the repository, but also comes with the obligation to be a responsible leader in the community.

### Process for becoming a committer

* Show your experience with the codebase through contributions and engagement on the community channels.
* Request to become a committer.
* Have the majority of committers approve you becoming a committer.

> * Your name and email is added to the MAINTAINERS.md file for the project.

Reviewer 2: Minor quibble - perhaps "committers" should be listed instead in COMMITTERS.md or otherwise all references to "committers" changed to "maintainers" for improved consistency?

Author: Good catch - this can easily be changed to COMMITTERS.md, or added to the end of this file if that's easier.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.

### Committer responsibilities

* Monitor email aliases.

> * Monitor Slack (delayed response is perfectly acceptable).

Reviewer 2: Perhaps worth removing this line until the decision is made to introduce a Slack channel for OpenVDB to avoid confusion?

Author: Good point - do you see interest in having a Slack or IRC-like channel for the group( if there's not one already )?

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good to have something like that, but right now everything is done through email so suggest we just remove this line for now. Ideally, we should mark this down as a future agenda item, perhaps as part of a wider topic about communication. Not high priority though.

> * Triage GitHub issues and perform pull request reviews for other committers and the community.

Reviewer 2: We should perhaps also discuss the use of the OpenVDB JIRA provided by the ASWF for issue tracking - https://jira.aswf.io/projects/OVDB and how that should get triaged, managed vs GitHub issues.

Author: Didn't know that was there - yes please change the reference if that's the preferred place.

Reviewer 2: It's not currently. I'm just highlighting another potential topic for discussion, I think aiming for a weekly cadence for these meetings was a good idea. :)

> * Make sure that ongoing PRs are moving forward at the right pace or close them.

Reviewer 2: Should we aim to define what "at the right pace" means here?

> * In general continue to be willing to spend at least 25% of ones time working on the project (~1.25 business days per week).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In general continue to be willing to spend at least 25% of one's time working on the project (~1.25 business days per week).
```

### When does a committer lose committer status?

If a committer is no longer interested or cannot perform the committer duties listed above, they
should volunteer to be moved to emeritus status. In extreme cases this can also occur by a vote of
the committers per the voting process below.

## Technical Steering Committee (TSC) member

> The Technical Steering Committee (TSC) oversees the overall technical direction of OpenVDB, as defined in the [charter](charter.md).

Reviewer 2: Perhaps worth mentioning that TSC members and committers/maintainers are the same individuals. Then we can consider re-visiting this if necessary in the future. Based on the size of the OpenVDB community, I doubt this will be necessary though.

TSC voting members consist of committers that have been nominated by the committers, with a supermajority of voting members required to have a committer elected to be a TSC voting member. TSC voting members term and succession is defined in the [charter](charter.md).

> All meetings of the TSC are open to participation by any member of the OpenVDB community. Meeting times are listed in the [ASWF techincal community calendar](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/calendar).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All meetings of the TSC are open to participation by any member of the OpenVDB community. Meeting times are listed in the [ASWF technical community calendar](https://lists.aswf.io/g/tac/calendar).
```

## Current TSC members

* Ken Museth, Chair / Weta
* Peter Cucka, DreamWorks
* Jeff Lait, SideFX
* Nick Avramoussis, Double Negative
* Dan Bailey, ILM

# Release Process

Project releases will occur on a scheduled basis as agreed to by the TSC.

# Conflict resolution and voting

In general, we prefer that technical issues and maintainer membership are amicably worked out
between the persons involved. If a dispute cannot be decided independently, the TSC can be
called in to decide an issue. If the TSC themselves cannot decide an issue, the issue will
be resolved by voting. The voting process is a simple majority in which each TSC receives one vote.

# Communication

This project, just like all of open source, is a global community. In addition to the Code of Conduct, this project will:

> * Keep all communucation on open channels ( mailing list, forums, chat ).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Keep all communication on open channels ( mailing list, forums, chat ).
```

Reviewer 2: As discussed in the last meeting, perhaps also worth highlighting that there is room for private communication for sensitive discussions.

* Be respectful of time and language differences between community members ( such as scheduling meetings, email/issue responsiveness, etc ).
* Ensure tools are able to be used by community members regardless of their region.

> If you have concerns about communication challenges for this project, please contact the maintainers.

Reviewer 2: Again, perhaps some unification of the interchange of use between committers, maintainers and TSC members?
